Create Region and Site Location Types and Locations during data migration (#3047)
nautobot/nautobot: nautobot/docs/release-notes/version-2.0.md

> 

Reviewer: This is a lot of information. Maybe we should include examples for 3 and 4?

#### Collapse Region and Site Models into Location ([#2517](https://github.com/nautobot/nautobot/issues/2517))

##### Initial Data Migration

> `Site` and `Region` models are removed in v2.0. As a result, the existing `Site` and `Region` data will be moved to `LocationTypes` and `Locations`. Here is what to expect:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `Site` and `Region` models have been removed in v2.0 and have been replaced with `Location` of specific `LocationType`. As a result, the existing `Site` and `Region` data will be migrated to corresponding `LocationType` and `Location` objects. Here is what to expect:
```

1. If you do not have any `Site` and `Region` instances in your existing database, running this data migration will do nothing.

> 2. If you only have `Region` instances in your existing database, a `Region` LocationType will be created and for each legacy `Region` instance, a corresponding `Location` instance with the same attributes (`name`, `description` and etc) will be created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. If you only have `Region` instances in your existing database, a `LocationType` named "Region" will be created and for each legacy `Region` instance, a corresponding `Location` instance with the same attributes (`name`, `description`, etc.) will be created.
```

> 3. If you only have `Site` instances in your existing database, a `Site` LocationType will be created and every root level `LocationType` in your database will have the new `Site` LocationType as their parent. For each legacy `Site` instance, a corresponding `Location` instance with the same attributes (`name`, `description`, `tenant`, `facility`, `asn`, `latitude`, `longitude` and etc) will be created. In addition to that, models (`CircuitTermination`, `Device`, `PowerPanel`, `RackGroup`, `Rack`, `Prefix`, `VLANGroup`, `VLAN`, `Cluster`) with an old `Site` instance assigned without its `location` attribute specified will have its `location` point to the new `Location` of `Site` LocationType. These Models with `location` attribute specified will remain unchanged.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. If you only have `Site` instances in your existing database, a `LocationType` named "Site" will be created and every root level `LocationType` in your database will have the new "Site" `LocationType` as their parent. For each legacy `Site` instance, a corresponding `Location` instance with the same attributes (`name`, `description`, `tenant`, `facility`, `asn`, `latitude`, `longitude`, etc.) will be created. In addition to that, models (`CircuitTermination`, `Device`, `PowerPanel`, `RackGroup`, `Rack`, `Prefix`, `VLANGroup`, `VLAN`, `Cluster`) with an old `Site` instance assigned without its `location` attribute specified will have its `location` point to the new `Location` of "Site" `LocationType`. All other attributes on these models will remain unchanged.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. If you only have `Site` instances in your existing database:
    - A `LocationType` named "Site" will be created and every root level `LocationType` in your database will have the new "Site" `LocationType` as their parent.
    - For each legacy `Site` instance, a corresponding `Location` instance with the same attributes (`name`, `description`, `tenant`, `facility`, `asn`, `latitude`, `longitude`, etc.) will be created.
    - Model instances that had a `site` field (`CircuitTermination`, `Device`, `PowerPanel`, `RackGroup`, `Rack`, `Prefix`, `VLANGroup`, `VLAN`, `Cluster`) assigned and *did not* have a `location` attribute assigned will be updated to have their `location` point to the new `Location` corresponding to that `Site`. All other attributes on these models will remain unchanged.
```

    For Example:

>         A `Site` instance with name **AMS01** is the base site for two top level locations with names **root-01** and **root-02** respectively in the your existing database. During the data migration, `Site` LocationType and a location of this LocationType named **AMS01** with all the information (`asn`, `latitude`, etc) will be created and **root-01** and **root-02** will have this location as their `parent`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        We will start with a `Site` instance with name **AMS01** as the base `Site` for two top-level `Location` objects with names **root-01** and **root-02** respectively. During the data migration, a `LocationType` named **Site** will be created, and a `Location` of **Site** `LocationType` named **AMS01** with all the information (`asn`, `latitude`, etc.) from the base `Site` will be created. The `Location` objects named **root-01** and **root-02** will have this **AMS01** `Location` set as their `parent`.
```

Reviewer 3: Any reason not to use quotes instead of bolding for these name strings?

Reviewer 2: To make them stand out.

>         In addition, legacy `Site` instance with name **AMS01** also has three `Device` instances associated with it: **ams01-edge-01**, **ams01-edge-02**, **ams01-edge-03**. However, **ams01-edge-01** only has its `site` attribute set as **AMS01** whereas **ams01-edge-02** and **ams01-edge-03** have both its `site` and `location` attributes set as **AMS01** and **root-01** respectively. During the data migration, **ams01-edge-01**'s `location` attribute will point to the new location of `Site` LocationType with name **AMS01** while devices **ams01-edge-02** and **ams01-edge-03** remain unchanged.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        In addition, the legacy `Site` instance with name **AMS01** also has three `Device` instances associated with it: **ams01-edge-01**, **ams01-edge-02**, **ams01-edge-03**. However, **ams01-edge-01** only has its `site` attribute set as **AMS01** whereas **ams01-edge-02** and **ams01-edge-03** have both its `site` and `location` attributes set as **AMS01** and **root-01** respectively. During the data migration, `location` attribute for the `Device` named **ams01-edge-01**'s will point to the new `Location` named **AMS01** of `LocationType` **Site**, while devices **ams01-edge-02** and **ams01-edge-03** will remain unchanged.
```

> 4. If you have both `Site` and `Region` instances in your existing database, a `Region` LocationType will be created and for each legacy `Region` instance, a corresponding `Location` instance with the same attributes (`name`, `description` and etc) will be created. A `Site` LocationType will be created with the new `Region` LocationType as the parent and every root level `LocationType` in your database will have the new `Site` LocationType as a parent. For each legacy `Site` instance, a corresponding `Location` instance with the same attributes (`name`, `description`, `tenant`, `facility`, `asn`, `latitude`, `longitude` and etc) will be created. If you have `Site` instances in your database without a `Region` assigned to them, one additional location named "Global Region" of LocationType `Region` will be created and all the locations of LocationType `Site` created from the legacy region-less `Site` instances will have "Global Region" as their parent. In addition to that, models (`CircuitTermination`, `Device`, `PowerPanel`, `RackGroup`, `Rack`, `Prefix`, `VLANGroup`, `VLAN`, `Cluster`) with an old `Site` instance assigned but without its `location` attribute specified will have its `location` point to the new `Location` of `Site` LocationType. These Models with `location` attribute specified will remain unchanged.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. If you have both `Site` and `Region` instances in your existing database, a `LocationType` named **Region** will be created and for each legacy `Region` instance. A corresponding `Location` instance with the same attributes (`name`, `description`, etc.) for each `Region` will be created. A `LocationType` named **Site** will be created with the new `LocationType` named **Region** set as its `parent` and every root-level `LocationType` in your database will have the new `LocationType` named **Site** as its `parent`. For each legacy `Site` instance, a corresponding `Location` instance with the same attributes (`name`, `description`, `tenant`, `facility`, `asn`, `latitude`, `longitude`, etc.) will be created. If you have `Site` instances in your database without a `Region` assigned to them, one additional `Location` named **Global Region** of `LocationType` **Region** will be created and each `Location` of `LocationType` **Site** created from the legacy region-less `Site` instances will have the **Global Region** `Location` as their parent. In addition to that, models (`CircuitTermination`, `Device`, `PowerPanel`, `RackGroup`, `Rack`, `Prefix`, `VLANGroup`, `VLAN`, `Cluster`) with an old `Site` instance assigned but without its `location` attribute specified will have its `location` point to the new `Location` of `LocationType` **Site**. All other attributes on these models will remain unchanged.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. If you have both `Site` and `Region` instances in your existing database:
    - A `LocationType` named **Region** will be created.
    - For each legacy `Region` instance, a corresponding `Location` instance with the same attributes (`name`, `description`, etc.) will be created.
    - A `LocationType` named **Site** will be created with the new `LocationType` named **Region** set as its `parent`.
    - Every pre-existing root-level `LocationType` in your database will be updated to have the new `LocationType` named **Site** as its `parent`.
    - For each legacy `Site` instance, a corresponding "Site" `Location` instance with the same attributes (`name`, `description`, `tenant`, `facility`, `asn`, `latitude`, `longitude`, etc.) will be created with its parent set to the corresponding "Region" `Location` if any.
        - If you have `Site` instances in your database without a `Region` assigned to them, one additional `Location` named **Global Region** of `LocationType` **Region** will be created and each `Location` of `LocationType` **Site** created from the legacy region-less `Site` instances will have the **Global Region** `Location` as their parent.
    - Model instances that had a `site` attribute (`CircuitTermination`, `Device`, `PowerPanel`, `RackGroup`, `Rack`, `Prefix`, `VLANGroup`, `VLAN`, `Cluster`) assigned and *did not* have a `location` attribute assigned will be updated to have their `location` point to the new `Location` of `LocationType` **Site**. All other attributes on these models will remain unchanged.
```

This scenario is very similar to case 3 above in which you only have Site instances in your existing database. In this scenario, however, you also have Region instances.

    For Example:

>         There are two `Site` instances and one `Region` instance in your existing database:
>         The `Region` with name **America** has one child `Site` instance named **AMS01**. And the other `Site` instance named **AUS01** is not associated with any regions (`region` attribute is set to `None`). Site **AMS01** is the base site for two top level locations with names **root-01** and **root-02** respectively in the your existing database. During the data migration, `Region` LocationType and a location of this LocationType named **America** with all the information will be created. `Site` LocationType with its `parent` set as the new LocationType `Region` and a location of `Site` LocationType named **AMS01** with all the information (`asn`, `latitude`, etc) will be created. Location **AMS01** will have Location **America** as its `parent` and locations **root-01** and **root-02** will have location **AMS01** as their `parent`. As for `Site` instance **AUS01**, since it does not have a `Region` instance associated with it, its corresponding location **AUS01** will have a new location named **Global Region** of LocationType `Region` as its parent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        There are two `Site` instances and one `Region` instance in your existing database. The `Region` with name **America** has one child `Site` instance named **AMS01**. And the other `Site` instance named **AUS01** is not associated with any `Region` (`region` attribute is set to `None`). The `Site` **AMS01** is the base `Site` for two top-level `Location` objects with names **root-01** and **root-02** respectively. During the data migration, a `LocationType` named **Region** and a `Location` of this `LocationType` named **America** with all the same information will be created.  The `LocationType` named **Site** with its `parent` set as the new `LocationType` **Region** and a `Location` of `LocationType` named **AMS01** with all the same information (`asn`, `latitude`, etc.) will be created. The `Location` **AMS01** will have `Location` **America** as its `parent` and each `Location` **root-01** and **root-02** will have `Location` **AMS01** as its `parent`. Finally, the `Site` instance **AUS01**, since it does not have a `Region` instance associated with it, its corresponding `Location` **AUS01** will have a new `Location` named **Global Region** of `LocationType` **Region** as its `parent`.
```

Reviewer 3: Consider splitting this into a list of data/actions as well.

>         In addition, legacy `Site` instance with name **AMS01** also has three `Device` instances associated with it: **ams01-edge-01**, **ams01-edge-02**, **ams01-edge-03**. However, **ams01-edge-01** only has its `site` attribute set as **AMS01** whereas **ams01-edge-02** and **ams01-edge-03** have both its `site` and `location` attributes set as **AMS01** and **root-01** respectively. During the data migration, **ams01-edge-01**'s `location` attribute will point to the new location of `Site` LocationType with name **AMS01** while devices **ams01-edge-02** and **ams01-edge-03** remain unchanged.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        In addition, legacy `Site` instance with name **AMS01** also has three `Device` instances associated with it named **ams01-edge-01**, **ams01-edge-02**,  and **ams01-edge-03**. However, **ams01-edge-01** only has its `site` attribute set as `Site` **AMS01** whereas **ams01-edge-02** and **ams01-edge-03** have both its `site` and `location` attributes set `Site` **AMS01** and `Location` **root-01** respectively. During the data migration, **ams01-edge-01**'s `location` attribute will point to the new `Location` of `LocationType` **Site** with name **AMS01** while devices **ams01-edge-02** and **ams01-edge-03** will remain unchanged.
```

#### Collapse Region and Site Models into Location ([#2517](https://github.com/nautobot/nautobot/issues/2517))

##### Initial Data Migration

The `Site` and `Region` models have been removed in v2.0 and have been replaced with `Location` of specific `LocationType`. As a result, the existing `Site` and `Region` data will be migrated to corresponding `LocationType` and `Location` objects. Here is what to expect:

1. If you do not have any `Site` and `Region` instances in your existing database, running this data migration will do nothing.

> 2. If you only have `Region` instances in your existing database, a `LocationType` named "Region" will be created and for each legacy `Region` instance, a corresponding `Location` instance with the same attributes (`name`, `description`, etc.) and hierarchy will be created.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. If you only have `Region` instances in your existing database, a `LocationType` named **Region** will be created and for each legacy `Region` instance, a corresponding `Location` instance with the same attributes (`name`, `description`, etc.) and hierarchy will be created.
```

3. If you only have `Site` instances in your existing database:

>     - A `LocationType` named "Site" will be created and every root level `LocationType` in your database will have the new "Site" `LocationType` as their parent.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - A `LocationType` named **Site** will be created and every preexisting root level `LocationType` in your database will be updated to have the new **Site** `LocationType` as their parent.
```

>     - For each legacy `Site` instance, a corresponding `Location` instance with the same attributes (`name`, `description`, `tenant`, `facility`, `asn`, `latitude`, `longitude`, etc.) will be created.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - For each legacy `Site` instance, a corresponding `Location` instance with the same attributes (`name`, `description`, `tenant`, `facility`, `asn`, `latitude`, `longitude`, etc.) will be created, and any preexisting `Locations` in your database will be updated to have the appropriate "site" `Locations` as their parents.
```

    For Example:

    - We will start with a `Site` instance with name **AMS01** as the base `Site` for two top-level `Location` objects with names **root-01** and **root-02** respectively.

    - During the data migration, a `LocationType` named **Site** will be created, and a `Location` of **Site** `LocationType` named **AMS01** with all the information (`asn`, `latitude`, etc.) from the base `Site` will be created.

    - The `Location` objects named **root-01** and **root-02** will have this **AMS01** `Location` set as their `parent`.

4. If you have both `Site` and `Region` instances in your existing database:

    - A `LocationType` named **Region** will be created.

    - For each legacy `Region` instance, a corresponding `Location` instance with the same attributes (`name`, `description`, etc.) will be created.

    - A `LocationType` named **Site** will be created with the new `LocationType` named **Region** set as its `parent`.

    - Every pre-existing root-level `LocationType` in your database will be updated to have the new `LocationType` named **Site** as its `parent`.

>     - For each legacy `Site` instance, a corresponding "Site" `Location` instance with the same attributes (`name`, `description`, `tenant`, `facility`, `asn`, `latitude`, `longitude`, etc.) will be created with its parent set to the corresponding "Region" `Location` if any.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - For each legacy `Site` instance, a corresponding "site" `Location` instance with the same attributes (`name`, `description`, `tenant`, `facility`, `asn`, `latitude`, `longitude`, etc.) will be created with its parent set to the corresponding "region" `Location` if any.
```
